---
title: Why this page is so bland
author: Nicholas Ficara
---

# Why is this site so bland?

Good question. The internet has changed over the past 10 years. That much is obvious. Our internet connections have gotten faster and faster of the years. That too is obvious. Computers have gotten much faster over the years. I really hope you aren't surprised by that last one. Here is the problem: this new access to computing resources and internet speed has made us developers lazy and sloppy. Websites could still be 5kb to load like in the old days, but instead we have recipe websites that take 50mb to load because of all the bloat. Modern sites *don't* need to be this heavy. 

You may ask: Nick, your main website is flashy, why isn't it plaintext as well? Also a good question. In this day and age, the standard has been made clear to all developers: if your site doesn't instantly make the person looking at it go "wow!", it's not up to par. I tried my best to make it as lean as possible. My lighthouse score is 100 and I don't pull in any advertisements, trackers, external fonts, frontend libraries, etc. It's all clean code.

# Do all websites need to be this boring?

No. I think we can and should take advantage of the abilities of a modern computer. I love modern web browsing experiences. I use three.js all the time and I love pushing a browser to its limits. But there is a time and place for that. For simple text websites, you simply don't need this.

# Case and point: reader mode.

Browser reader mode. This is a testament to the quality of the modern web. The fact that it's now up to your browser to siphon out the garbage in a website just so that you can read text is infuriating. It doesn't need to be that way.

# The real victims of this crime.

Not only does modern web bloat contribute to a terrible browsing experience, it can actually make it impossible for those with vision impairment. Web developers as a whole have made great strides towards providing an accessible web to people with disabilities. The [ARIA]([ARIA - Accessibility | MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA)) attributes are a great example. The top websites all do a great job at implementing these attributes and everything is peachy! Yeah I'm just kiddin. WebAIM has [identified]([WebAIM: The WebAIM Million - An annual accessibility analysis of the top 1,000,000 home pages](https://webaim.org/projects/million/)) that out of the top 1 million sites, there are 51 million issues. That's 51 issues per site. Is modern web bloat the cause of this? Yes. Let me prove it to you. I did nothing to this website to make it accessible, yet it's 100% accessible. That's because the people who designed HTML were quite smart, and decided that the language should be a *markup* of the site. All elements should make semantic sense. But just using hyper nested divs generated by micro react components is *not* semantic. The level of complexity of modern websites has made it more difficult to create semantic and accessible markup, and that's fair to some extent, but my point stands. It's a problem.
